GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
<http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works. The licenses for most software
and other practical works are designed to take away your freedom
to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
all versions of a programâ€”to make sure it remains free software
for all its users.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and
charge for this service if you wish), that you receive source code
or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or
use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you
have certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it. These responsibilities translate to
certain requirements for modifying and distributing the software.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on the same freedoms to the
recipients that you received. You must make sure that you, too,
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can
change the software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and
that you know you can do these things.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program
will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that
any patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not used at
all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

0. Definitions.

    "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public
    License.

    "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other
    kinds of works, such as semiconductor masks.

    "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under
    this License. Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees"
    and "recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

    To "modify" a work means to make changes to the content,
    structure, or form of the work. When we say that a work is
    "based on" another work, we mean that it is a modified version
    of the original work or that it incorporates all or part of the
    original work. The "source code" for a work means the preferred
    form of the work for making modifications to it. For an
    executable work, complete source code means all the source code
    for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
    definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
    and installation of the executable. However, as a special
    exception, the source code distributed need not include
    anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
    binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and
    so on) of the operating system on which the executable runs,
    unless that component itself accompanies the executable.

    "You" means the licensee of this License.

1. Source Code.

    The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work
    for making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete
    source code means all the source code for all modules it
    contains, plus any associated interface definition files, plus
    the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
    executable. However, as a special exception, the source code
    distributed need not include anything that is normally distributed
    (in either source or binary form) with the major components
    (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on which
    the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
    executable.

2. Basic Permissions.

    You may copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, and
    sublicense these rights, on the following terms:

    a. You must provide the source code for the work and all
       derivative works, including any modifications, and any
       scripts used to control the compilation and installation of
       the executable. The source code must be distributed under the
       same license as the executable work.

    b. You may not impose any further restrictions on the rights
       granted by this License.

    c. You must keep intact all copyright notices and disclaimers
       of warranties.

3. Copyleft.

    You must preserve the following notice along with the source
    code when distributing copies of the work, and you must keep the
    source code available for all derivative works:

    "This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License,
    Version 3, as published by the Free Software Foundation."

4. Distribution of Modified Versions.

    You may modify the work and distribute the modified version
    under the terms of this License, provided that you comply with
    the following:

    a. You must include a prominent notice stating that you have
       changed the work and the date of the change.

    b. You must include the complete source code for the modified
       version, including all modifications, and any scripts used
       to control the compilation and installation of the
       executable.

5. Copyleft for Other Licenses.

    If you modify the work and distribute it under a different
    license, you must comply with the terms of both this License and
    the other license.

6. Patent Grant.

    You grant a license to any patents that you hold or control that
    would be infringed by the work, provided that you distribute the
    work under the terms of this License.

7. Tivoization.

    You may not use any technical measures to prevent others from
    modifying or running the work.

8. No Warranty.

    The work is distributed without any warranty; you must assume the
    risk of using it.

9. Acceptance.

    By copying, modifying, or distributing the work, you accept and
    agree to abide by the terms of this License.

10. Termination.

    If you fail to comply with any of the terms of this License, your
    license will terminate automatically.

11. Governing Law.

    This License is governed by the laws of the state of New York,
    United States of America.

12. Compatibility with Other Licenses.

    You may not combine this License with any other license that is
    incompatible with the GNU General Public License.

13. Additional Terms.

    You may add additional terms to the License, provided that they
    do not contradict the terms of this License.
